---
title: School Based Assessment
permalink: /parent-sba/
description: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h3>School-Based Assessment 2024</h3><p>Assessment is an integral part of the school curriculum, and it provides students and teachers with feedback that will help them address learning gaps and improve teaching practices.</p><p>Typically, there will be one weighted assessment (WA) per subject from Terms 1 to 3. The modes of WA could include:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Performance Tasks (e.g., group presentation, project work)</p></li><li><p>Tests (timed-based written assessment conducted during curriculum time)</p><p></p></li></ul><p>Please see Table 1 for the assessment weightings for Secondary 1 to 3 students for the year.</p><p><u>Table 1: Assessment weightings for 2024</u></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 1</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 3</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 4</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>WA1</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>WA2</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>WA3</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>End-of-year Exam</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>15%</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>15%</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>15%</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>55%</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>For subjects that are taught on a per-semester basis, i.e. Design and Technology and Food and Consumer education, respective subject teachers will inform students of the details on assessment weighting.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><h3>What are Weighted Assessments (WA)?</h3><p>For our&nbsp;<strong>Sec 1 to 3</strong>&nbsp;students, WA may take the form of short class tests, performance tasks, graded assignments, project work or oral presentations, varied and designed to support learning of students leveraging on formative assessment.</p><p>To better prepare our&nbsp;<strong>Sec 4 and 5</strong>&nbsp;students for the rigour of the national exams at the end of the year, WA 1 &amp; 2 will be closely aligned to the scope of assessment of the national exams.</p><p>It is important to reinforce positive learning dispositions and attitudes in our students through their active participation in lessons and engagement on the learning tasks and homework provided daily. These will help develop study habits and strengthen positive learning dispositions in them.</p><h3>Sec 1 to 5 WA1</h3><p>In Term 1, WA will take place in the form of Performance Tasks or short tests across the different subjects. Respective subject teachers will inform students of the necessary details. Do note that WA1 will take place from Week 4 to Week 8.</p><p>You may find the schedule and scope for WA1 at <a href="https://for.edu.sg/sgs2024wa1" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://for.edu.sg/sgs2024wa1</a> .</p><h3>Students Absent from WA/Examinations</h3><p>Students who are absent from the tests due to illness must submit a medical certificate to his/her Form Teacher, upon his/her return to school. A student without a medical certificate will be awarded zero for the test he/she missed. Only medical certificates issued by registered medical practitioners will be accepted. For absences from tests due to other valid reasons, please seek advice from his/her Form Teacher.</p><h3>Further Queries</h3><p>Should you have any queries, please contact any of the following personnel at 6288 9227:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Terrence Ong (Mr), HOD/MTL (<a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">terrence_ong_wee_yum@moe.edu.sg</a>)</p></li><li><p>Leow Hui Li (Ms), SH/EL (<a href="mailto:leow_hui_li@moe.edu.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">leow_hui_li@moe.edu.sg</a>)</p></li></ul><p></p>